---
layout: post
title: Class Preparation
---

A couple of updates before break regarding the Fisheries Science and Management course you are signed up for for Winter semester. 

1. The book used for the "science" portion of the course can be ordered [from here](https://www.crcpress.com/Introductory-Fisheries-Analyses-with-R/Ogle/9781482235203).  This book is new so there are no "used" copies available anywhere, but it is 20% off (the same discount available to the author) through the end of the year.  I will provide PDFs of chapters from other books or readings from the primary literature for other parts of the class.  In other words, this is the only book that you need to order.
1.	You will want to make sure that you have a good grasp on the following concepts from your Introductory Statistics and Ecology courses: linear regression (equation of the line, interpretation of the slope and intercept, making predictions, residuals, how the line is found (i.e., minimizing the RSS); population modeling (exponential growth, logistic growth), density dependence and density independence, r- and k-selection, concepts of competition and predation, intra- and inter-specific, abiotic and biotic.  We will very briefly review some of these concepts, but I will expect that you are familiar with them on day one.
1.	All analyses in this class will be done with R and the RStudio interface.  If you have a personal computer, then I would urge you to install both of these programs on to it.  Descriptions for doing so can be [found here](../resources/).  You will also need to install the FSA package which is described in the third bullet under the same link.  Please update your R/RStudio and (if you have installed it previously) to the very latest versions!!
1.	If you have never used R before, then you will need to spend extra time at the beginning of the semester working to get a grasp of this software (I will help you, of course, but this extra time will need to occur outside of the class).
1.	Class will be cancelled for a couple of days (Feb 17-19) because I will be attending the [Wisconsin Chapter of the American Fisheries Society meeting](http://www.wi-afs.org/AnnualMeetings.aspx) in LaCrosse.  Attending this meeting would be a great supplement to the course and, if you are interested in fisheries as a career, would be a great learning experience.  If you are interested in attending this conference you should contact Katie Windschitl as she is coordinating a group request for Parsonage Funding to offset most of the costs of attending this conference.  You do not have to have been active in AFS to join the group.  However, you do need to contact Katie ASAP as Parsonage Fund requests are due very soon.  Let me know if you want to know more about the conference.
1.	Katie is also organizing a volunteer experience to help register Sturgeon on Lake Winnebago in early Feb (see [this](https://droglenc.wordpress.com/2015/02/21/northland-students-help-sturgeon-spearing/) and [this](https://droglenc.wordpress.com/2014/02/11/sturgeon-spearing-with-northland-students/)).  This is very nearly a "once-in-a-lifetime" experience and would also be a good supplement to this course and looks great on your resume if you are a fisheries person.  Contact Katie for more details about this opportunity.

Let me know if you have any questions.  I hope you all have a strong end to this semester and a great and relaxing holiday break so that we can get off to a quick start next semester!
